---
published: false
type: review
date: 2026-02-02
author: cale

title: "Provo"
subtitle: "Whimsical journey harkens back to the era of grittier family films"
release_year: 2022

rating: 3

comment_link: https://letterboxd.com/jeffdelay/film/riddle-of-fire/ 
view_link: https://yellowveilpictures.com/riddle-of-fire/

image: /assets/images/riddle-of-fire.webp
image_alt: "Three young actors looking from behind a pile of wood, holding paint ball guns."
image_caption: "Charlie Stover, Phoebe Ferro, and Skyler Peters in Riddle of Fire."
---

I can't help but play the armchair psychologist when I watch <cite>Provo</cite>. I suppose that's what makes for a good existentialist drama. 

Emma Thatcher (who also wrote and directed the movie) plays Liz, a mid-20's ex-mormon with a chip on her shoulder. The whole first act of the movie was a frighteningly accurate portrayal of the nihilistic millenial generation that hangs out in the "sort of cool" parts of big cities. It's the type of artsy milieu that many of us find ourselves pulled into and out of throughout our 20's I suppose. Everything is kept at arm's length: people, opinions, dreams.

So much offhand dialogue in this section felt like Emma remembering real things that her friends have said. 

> Is 39 too old to be a helicopter pilot?



I really wish that this section of the movie was longer. It would have benefitted the audience to see more endearing aspects of Liz before we go with her on the long drive.

All of the grievances expressed in this movie, be it with people who have children, people who have white skin, people who 

Liz, a depressive pessimist, and Geoffrey, an ironic optimist, are an odd couple. There is a constant push and pull in terms of each trying to change the other and it sometimes working but sometimes not. The second act of the movie

"What did he do?" is sort of the burning question of the movie. 

And I get the distinct impression that the answer is "nothing". And that's the problem. Liz throughout the movie is 

With this character Elizabeth, I feel that nobody ever did anything to her, and that might be the real issue. Being born into a world, and then mostly ignored.



